Speedy MIDI is basically a MIDI editor.

It's not a full scale MIDI editor like there are many others on the market. 
Speedy MIDI is especially designed for choirs and singers to quickly
generate MIDI files for rehearsal. If the quality of the sheet music is 
too low for scanning, Speedy MIDI might be an interesting alternative to other
MIDI or notation editors.



The interface is designed for speed:

- Cell raster technique: Entering dotted notes or ties is not needed. You 
  simply enter the length of a note in multiples of the current cell length.
  
  Hold the MIDI keyboard key or mouse piano key and press spacebar until the 
  note has the desired length. Or use a cipher key to directly specify a note 
  length in multiples of the current cell length. 
  
  By pressing Shift+Space or Shift+Cipher you can extend any existing note in
  cell length units.
  
- Simultaneous entry in multiple tracks: Press multiple keys on the 
  MIDI keyboard or mouse piano, the notes get distributed to the tracks 
  marked for recording. This is helpful for e.g. chorale music or any other 
  music with same rhythmic patterns in multiple voices.
  
- Optionally use a MIDI keyboard for input, otherwise use the mouse piano.

- Keep track of your notes using rehearsal markers (Verse, Chorus etc.)

- Shortcuts exist for all commands.



Speedy MIDI loads and saves its data as Standard MIDI Files (.mid). Some
extended information like color, rehearsal markers etc. are saved in additional
"text events" in these MIDI files. This is not harmful for playback in 
any other MIDI playback program.

But take care! When saving (thus overwriting) the MIDI file from within _other_
MIDI software, this additional information probably gets lost :-(  
Of course the tracks and notes won't get lost.



There is one thing to say about SWING.

In Speedy MIDI, simply enter the swinged 8th notes as regular 8th notes as 
visible on the note sheet. Then enable swing playback by pressing 'U' for 
measure attributes, and selecting a swing type. So far the easy part!

However, other MIDI playback software does not know about this special
playback option. If you want to use other MIDI players for playback, first 
save a compatible file via Ctrl+M. This copy will have the correct swing
interpretation. Always keep the original file as it allows for easier editing.
